you pledged never to lie to us for that
I will never lie to you you have my word
on that
well there it is Kaylee mcenany making
that pledge during the first official
White House briefing since becoming
press secretary that yesterday you know
the briefing in which she appeared was
the first in over a year in that room Ms
Mackinaw he hinted that the press
conferences could again become a regular
occur it's not that she is the press
secretary and she'll no doubt face a lot
of controversies one brewing right now
in Washington the White House decision
to block dr. Anthony pouchy from
testifying before a House panel on the
administration's response to the
pandemic calling that quote
counterproductive at this time but you
know we are told that dr. Falchi will
appear before a Senate Health Committee
hearing that to happen in about two
weeks and we now have the press
secretary yourself calum a canary
joining us from the North Lawn of the
White House welcome thank you for
joining us this afternoon as you know
good good to have you good to have you I
answered the questions dr. fowey as you
know Kaley has become a somber messenger
of truth in reality some say and a fear
that the White House are trying to
Muslim you're trying to keep him away
from the Democratic House members even
though we set to appear before the
Senate why was the decision made not to
have him appear before the house yeah so
let me explain that Eric first of all we
act in good faith and we expect the same
of our counterparts the Democrats in
Congress namely we want to ensure that
our experts that it's the best use of
their time at that moment it doesn't
detract from their day job but beyond
that ensuring that the right subject
matter expert is there at for the right
testimony so for instance in this case
chairman LOI actually made several calls
to chief of staff mark meadows who I
just spoke with and the chief of staff
repeatedly asked what the subject matter
of the hearing would be besides giving
vague responses she I'd never gave too
much detail as to what the actual
subject matter would be other than it
being a subcommittee for HHS funding
which would have been a rather odd fit
for dr. Falchi being that he's at NIH
which is a subdivision of secretary a a
czars HHS so when we press for details
as to why
ouchy in particular was the right person
for this testimony and I just hearing
those details were never provided I'm in
fact the chief of staff gave his email
address and never received a response
from the chairman so they've publicly
Miss Laury and they publicly you said
they want to investigate the
administration in a response they're
gonna have Tom Frieden you know I on
instead of the doctor what do you think
about that look you know that's their
decision but they were not acting in
good faith with the administration here
beyond that I'd also note where the
Senate gave us their plans to social
distance and how to do this safely the
House has yet to do that so they're not
acting in good faith and this really was
a publicity stunt on the part of
Democrats saying that the White House
blocked dr. Fauci because that wasn't
the case quite clearly not the case when
he's going to be testifying before the
Senate I'm in just over a week so you
know leave it to the Democrats to engage
in publicity stunts and put out a false
wall with no truth Wow about the
Democratic senators have a chance to ask
the doctor questions that's exactly
right that's exactly right the Senate
has acted in good faith on this matter
and we readily provided dr. Fauci but we
would encourage chairman lui to do the
same and to work with the chief of staff
because we certainly are trying to do
that here meanwhile in terms of testing
I mean you know the administration's
been accused of not being way behind the
ball on that underplaying the threat not
getting enough testing out what can you
tell us about that to try and reassure
Americans because health experts as you
know say testing and contact tracing or
what needed to finally put this virus
away once and for all
sure so let me say a few things on that
first of all we've tested six point
seven five million Americans that's more
than any country in the world and in
fact double what most countries have
done I was on the governor's call when
the president the vice president spoke
with the governor's and I heard Admiral
zihua assure each and every one of them
that we have enough testing supply to
meet all of their state testing needs
that they've laid out and as a reminder
it is up to the states to take a lead
here so the federal government has
supplemented that effort and done so in
an extraordinary fashion six point seven
five million tests and I would also note
in terms of developing a test I think
one thing that's under discussed and
underreported is
this FDA under the leadership of
President Trump issued 70 emergency use
authorization so that fast-tracked the
production and the creation of testing
and you compare that to Zika where there
were only twenty and h1n1 where there
were only seventeen that's a pretty
extraordinary accomplishment the
American people can be sure they have a
businessman in the White House who knows
how to work with the private sector and
get this done I mean you're right when
you point out that we've made mote but
had more tests than they are the country
in the world however not per capita I
mean 40 countries are ahead of us we're
right now about 20,000 to 88 per million
I mean Germany Spain Italy Canada
Belarus Israel's a double the numbers
didn't the administration make a mistake
by not following up strongly enough but
not having these tests at this this
testing in action and starting you know
it's not been February when we knew
about the virus well the administration
acted quickly and I note that on per
capita and our hot spots we have done
more than each of those countries I'd
also note South Korea which is hailed
for their testing dr. Burks noted this
week where they're doing 11 tests per
thousand we're doing 17 tests per
thousand so we're deploying testing
strategically in areas where people need
them where hotspots for example there's
a much greater need for people for
testing because there's symptomatic
people so that we've done this
strategically 6.75 million is an
extraordinary number and I mentioned
again those 70 emergency use
authorization x' and comparing that to
previous administrations like President
Obama and Vice President Biden with
swine flu
they had just 17 you pointed out
something and said something a moment
ago that the states need to take the
lead but the states say it's the federal
government you know Johns Hopkins says
that we need a contact tracing program
100,000 contact trace has hired three
point six billion dollars there's some
bills up in the Capitol Hill for that
would the administration support you
know what what what health experts say a
Civilian Conservation Corps type a work
Progress Administration massive federal
program that is needed to test and
contact trace every single American with
the administration's support that as
something that we've seen pretty
successfully done in some other
countries in order to be able to follow
the contact tracing well
I won't get ahead of the President on
saying if we would or would not support
a certain federal measure but what I
would say is the states have put
together plans that they've sent to the
administration saying this is what we
need to reopen this is what we need in
the way of testing and it's differed
from each and every state but the
administration has been able to look at
that and guarantee that as we move to
this phase one of reopening the test in
accordance with their plans which they
took the lead on the states will have
that testing we have been a great
partner I heard one Democrat governor
say this week and I won't say his name
but he said because of this
administration lives were saved in my
state Governor Chris Cuomo has said that
we've been phenomenal partners I here at
the White House President Trump as we've
done a very good job which is why you're
hearing widespread praise for this
effort on testing and otherwise well you
know other critics say that accuse the
administration and the president
directly of having blood on his hands of
saying that they did not do enough at
first so finally how would you respond
to that you know you see these you see a
lot of these critics and people who
really think that the administration and
the federal government didn't do enough
to protect America yeah that is a
completely inappropriate accusation and
one that just has no bearing in the
truth when you consider these facts that
this is the greatest mobilization of the
private sector since World War two when
you consider the fact that this
president was given a choice and that
was 2.2 million American lives lost or
shutting down the economy and he shut
down the economy to save lives to keep
us far below that 2.2 million number and
the mobilization of the private sector
has been extraordinary for instance in
95 mass alone this president has
deployed 75 million on the average year
the health care system uses 25 million
so we have done three times that in just
two months
this is a job that could have only been
done by someone like President Trump and
just those criticisms really have no
bearing in truth two million if there
weren't any actions taken but the ruler
and happened social distancing and other
actions taken Kelley mcenany I'm sure
will have a lot more interviews that
down the road you certainly are full of
facts a graduate of
town and Harvard Law School out on a
Saturday on the front lawn of the White
House congratulations and welcome to the
line of fire it's the press secretary
thank you so much I really thank you